[END PLAYBACK]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
And he, again, therefore, also the Dhamma Kaya Buddha, the Samad Bhadara,
when he gave this teaching, on the Konsi Jaipur.
The Konsi Jaipur is named the Bodhijata king of all creations.
So that is what, really, because it's so important.
And that Dzogchen itself is the embodiment of the Bodhijata.
And then Bodhijata, of course, you all know there's two Bodhijata,
which is known as the outreaching Bodhijata in a relative level.
And then the Bodhijata, which is free from the attachment and grasping,
and that which is known as then the absolute Bodhijata in one way.
So this Bodhijata of Dzogchen is united together
with all the separating the absolute and the relative to Bodhijata,
not going to target it in one single status.
And therefore, at the beginning of time, when we meditate in the practice,
and Dzogchen practice more kind of focus on the emptiness aspect
with true nature, and that's because due to our grasping duality regiment,
that carried us, like, so long time, life after life,
that kind of whoring, grasping, and kind of regiment attitude
was the mostly kind of like principle factors of the obstacle.
Therefore, immediately teaching kind of tells the emptiness,
emptiness, kind of emptiness, that teaching.
But emptiness alone is of course you all know.
And we will all through this, it's not really the true nature itself alone.
Emptiness, the fullness status, and so what is empty, that is full,
and what is full, and that is emptiness.
And in that case, what is empty, that is compassion, or great compassion.
What is great compassion, and that is emptiness.
They are united together without any slightly kind of the distinctions
between them as like even one single here is there,
between there we can find, completely united.
And that is what we should kind of recognizing,
and kind of re-conforming that view,
or that understanding in our heart, in the mind.
So what we should do is we should think of the same things
as we have in our mind.
We should think of the same things as we have in our mind.
And therefore, again, because when
we received our practice at Zouki,
we should not kind of carry away, again,
with the kind of emptiness, attitude,
and ignoring all the beauty of that emptiness.
And then it will kind of, again, become the extreme status.
And that, for those reasons, repeatedly
all those gracious teachers, warned to the practice,
then shouldn't fall completely in the kind
of extreme nihilism or kind of that emptiness, that ditch,
ditch, or the black hole.
Then it will become truly black hole.
And even you don't point out where we are going, jumping.
And so for those reasons, that is so important to kind of--
from now, kind of starting to all cooperate
and target these beautiful things.
Targeting and practice will make, then, everything beautiful.
Beginner is beautiful.
May it is beautiful, and concluding in achievement
will be the beautiful one.
And for all those reasons, for example,
the first gracious, first the most important,
or first the most famous lineage holder of the Dzogchen
after Gharap Durya, or the Gharap Durya,
the most famous disciple you all know,
the Manjishri Mitra, in a debate called Jambahini.
And Jambahini is the first one who also
wrote the commentaries on the Dzogchen teaching renowned,
which is, as you all know, and which is known as, and then
meditating on the bodhicitta, bodhicitta.
And that was the title of the Dzogchen teaching,
that he didn't name any other fancy names to his book,
the first book of the Dzogchen teaching,
only meditating on the bodhicitta, all which
is a nugget gold liquid from the stone.
I mean, that's just roughly my translation.
Again, this book is already translated.
I think I'm sure you all, maybe many of you,
have this text too.
And so that is what this great famous Dzogchen master
named to his book, not any other names,
except instructions on the bodhicitta.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]